- [Instructor] The Java Persistence API, or JPA,
is a Java EE API for accessing, persisting,
and managing Java objects and a relational database.
It is one of my favorite APIs
because it makes it incredibly simple
to perform CRUD operations against a relational data store.
JPA supports object-relational mapping,
which is a technique for using an annotated object model
for persisting data to a relational database.
This greatly simplifies how we read, write, update,
and delete data in a database from our Java applications,
which is also known as data persistence.
Using object-relational mapping,
it is possible to write Java applications
that interact with a relational database
without writing any SQL.
When using JPA, developers only work with objects
and the underlying SQL is handled by the JPA provider.
It is important to note that JPA is just a specification
or API.
The underlying implementation is built by JPA providers.
The most popular is hybernate, which is a JPA implementation
provided by JBoss.
JPA is typically broken down into four areas.
the JPA API provides support for key objects
such as the EntityManager,
which is used to manage entities.
We'll talk a little bit more about these concepts
in a minute.
The Java persistence query language, or JPQL,
allows us to write a SQL-like query that is object-based.
These queries work across database providers
and are irrelevant to the underlying data store.
The criteria API found in JPA provides a programmatic
type-safe API for building queries against entities.
It is very verbose to work with,
but if you are looking for type-safety,
it is the best option.
Let's talk a little bit more about the concepts
of an entity.
An entity is an object that represents a table
within your database schema.
So if we have a customer table in the database,
we'd normally create a customer class
which would be the entity.
Within the customer class, fields are created on the class
that correspond with every column in the customer table.
Annotations are then applied on the class and field
to map them to the underlying relational database structure.
These annotations denote the names of tables,
columns, foreign keys,
and information regarding relationships with other entities
known as associations.
When we execute a query with JPA,
each row in the query will become an instance
of the particular entity.
It's also important to understand that entities work best
with surrogate keys,
so unique identifiers are created for each instance.
Another key concept in the API
is the EntityManager, which is the key interface
for performing operations against the relational database.
The EntityManager interface exposes a set of methods
that accept entities or their IDs
so they can be queried, inserted, updated, and deleted.
Typically when working with the Java EE application server,
the EntityManager is provided by the container
and injected into beans as a dependency.
So let's put it all together
and introduce some more concepts.
JPA applications are packaged with a persistence.xml file
that provides configuration properties for the JPA provider
and a definition of persistence units.
The persistence unit is a logical grouping
that contains metadata about the EntityManager,
managed entities, and their associated mapping data.
So just remember,
the persistence unit contains all the information
that can instruct an EntityManager
on how to persist the entities into a relational database.
An EntityManager is built using information
in the persistence unit
and associated with a persistence context.
The persistence context contains the entity instances
and manages their life cycle.
Entities within the persistence context
can then be persisted to the relational data store
by the EntityManager.
So that's an overview of how JPA works.
Now let's talk a little bit more about JPQL.
JPQL is very SQL-like,
except the queries are written against the object model.
Using JPQL, you can construct queries
that perform select, update, and delete operations
against the database.
It's important to note the lack of support
for insert operations with JPQL.
Within JPQL queries, we can use corollaries
for common relational functions
like where clauses, like statements, parameters,
aggregate operators, and even joins.
Finally, let's talk about the CriteriaBuilder API.
The CriteriaBuilder is limited to performing queries
and is useful when a query needs to be dynamic
such as when the where clause is built conditionally.
Using the CriteriaBuilder for these situations
is a little verbose, but it provides a type-safe way
to build secure dynamic queries,
which is a common requirement in applications.
So that's a high-level look at JPA.
Now we'll transition to the hands-on lessons
to get some experience working with the API.